the Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
netan who has asked for forgiveness from
Israelis for not being able to bring
back alive the six hostages who were
found dead in Gaza on Saturday we were
very close he said we were nearly there
in a televised address he remain defiant
in his demand that Israeli troops must
continue to control the Philadelphia
Corridor in south of Gaza something
Hamas has rejected Corridor along the
Egypt Gaza border has emerged as a
primary sticking
in ceasefire talks he said it's a
Lifeline for Hamas their oxygen and it
will determine Israel's future let's
hear some of what he said I am begging
for your forgiveness that we did not
succeed bringing them home alive we were
very close nearly
there and I would like to repeat once
again this
evening Israel will not move onto our
normal
agenda after that Massacre Hamas will
pay a very heavy price for it the war
against this axis of Evil in this
specific war against
Hamas the first crack and of course that
doesn't bring about a deal whatsoever
but the first crack was when we went
into ravak and we took over the
Philadelphia Corridor and and the RAF um
trans Transit point because that was
literally their way they actually could
breathe and their oxygen they were
hoping that Iran or hisbah would come
and save them now that they're hoping
that International pressure would
now extricate them from that situation
but the only effective change that would
be enabled would be if we hold on to the
Philadelphia Corridor and not vacate it
not evacuate it because once we leave it
we'll never be able to go back so that's
a taste a sense of what Netanyahu was
saying in that address just in the last
90 minutes 2 hours or so a little
earlier President Biden said that a
final deal for a ceasefire and the
release of hostages held in Gaza is very
close to being presented to Israel and
Hamas by mediators but he told reporters
he did not think that the Israeli Prime
Minister was doing enough to secure an
agreement Biden spoke to reporters as he
arrived at the White House to meet us
negotiators let's have a listen you
planning to present a final hostage deal
for the uh both sides this week we're
very close to that what makes you think
that this deal will be successful in a
way that the other deals were
not hope friends Eternal Mr President if
do you think it's time for p prime
minister Netanyahu to do more on this
issue do you think he's doing enough no
Mr President so that last answer there
The crucial one is he doing enough no
answered President Biden well let's take
you to Israel itself now because there
has been plenty of criticism uh by many
thousands of people in Israel at well
aimed at uh prime minister Benjamin
Netanyahu these are the live pictures
from Jerusalem people out on the streets
urging uh their leader to do more to
bring the hostages home there have been
protests on the streets of Jerusalem
similarly large prot protests in Tel
Aviv as well happening right now they
were taking place actually on the
streets as Benjamin netan who was
holding that televised address well a
little earlier a strike went ahead today
until a court ordered people to end it
and returned to work the Nationwide
industrial action caused flight delays
and also hit medical centers schools and
businesses our Middle East correspondent
Lucy Williamson
reports Israel's protesters and their
prime minister are old
acquaintances calls for a hostage deal
have brought long established opponents
onto the streets but the shooting of six
hostages in a Gaza tunnel last week has
broadened this movement they say and the
mass demonstrations in Tel Aviv last
night were a turning point I think the
news of the six hostages the fact that
they were
alive and murdered
right before they could have been saved
that broke it after last night's Mass
protests people are back on the streets
again there are growing public and
political demands on Israel's prime
minister to make a deal but Benjamin
Netanyahu protected by his parliamentary
majority isn't
listening but then much of the country
isn't
protesting the one-day general strike
today largely unobserved even in left
leaning Tel
Aviv a Court ruled that the strike was
political and ended
it these protests are part of the well
established opposition to Israel's prime
minister analysts say and so far little
threat to him I think that
netan knows better than I do the best
thing is to let it uh play as a safety
valve to do some V ation and let people
say we hate you you are
murderer uh enough is
enough two of the protest most vocal
activists not in the street today but in
the cemetery the parents of Hostage hsh
Goldberg pollen burying their son for 23
years I was privileged to have the most
stunning honor to be hersh's
Mama I'll take it and say thank you I
just wish it had been for
longer tonight in Jerusalem the
demonstrations began again Mr Netanyahu
is used to opposition on the street but
he's also facing demands from the US
president and his own defense minister
those demands may be harder to ignore
Lucy Williamson BBC News
Jerusalem let's speak now to Aaron David
Miller Senior fellow the carnegi
Endowment for International Peace Think
Tank he's previously been an adviser on
Arab Israeli negotiations to both
Republican and Democratic
administrations thank you for coming on
the program thanks for having me so can
I ask you about that pressure on prime
minister Netanyahu from people in his
own country out on the streets yet again
right now and from the US president uh
there Joe Biden what's your assessment
of his position you know it's a rare
combination you now have massive public
protests on the streets you have the
Israeli Minister of Defense openly
charging uh in during a time of War at a
cabinet meeting uh that the prime
minister is advocating his moral
responsibility and failing to make a
choice you either have the Philadelphia
Corridor or you can free the hostage and
you have some pressure from the
administration but I have to say that
the reason we we are where we are is
because in negotiations
only when two parties believe that there
is urgency to close when the advantages
of closing the deal outweigh the
disadvantages of keeping it open to have
an agreement and within the last three
days you've seen a demonstration the
absence of urgency number one the
decision by Hamas who issued
instructions presumably that on the
approach of IDF soldiers keeping in mind
the Israeli operation to free hostages
in nro in central
Gaza um that they were to be
killed that act in my judgment has
created enormous room for Benjamin met
netan to maneuver and it's constricted
the room and the margin for pressure
from the Biden Administration the second
act was Nan's uh press conference today
in which he turned the Philadelphia
Corridor literally into the full Crum of
Western civilization and the only the
only alternative there's no alternative
but is really control in order to beat
the and he referred to it three times
the access Access of Evil summoning up a
a a quote from um former President
George W bush in a speech in the wake of
911 so I think this these two leaders
are simply unwilling they are able but
they are unwilling to make the kind
of arrangements and concessions
necessary to even get a phase one deal
which I still continue to believe is
doable but well I you you've laid out
there pretty clearly and without a great
deal of optimism but I'm going to ask
anyway you heard President Biden saying
he you know thinks a a deal ready to put
to negotiators on both sides is pretty
close when you hear that it sounds like
given the position that the leaders have
put them M themselves in you don't think
there's much chance of it actually
happening anytime soon I think if the
administration puts this last chance
final proposal on the
table unless barring some fundamental
11th hour change of heart it seems to me
they're going to get the administration
is going to get at best a yes but and if
the administration believes this is
truly the last chance and they do get a
yes butt what do the administration
going to do stop negotiating stop
engaging I've seen this movie in
negotiations many times you should only
put a final proposal on the
table uh and if in fact the parties uh
are not prepared to accept it you need
to be serious about walking away and
frankly I don't think the Biden
Administration in in the next 70 days in
anticipation of one of the most
consequential elections in modern
American history has the luxury or
option of walking away we are in a
negotiators called the saac with no easy
or quick way out president said Hope
Springs Eternal Aon David Miller we must
leave it there but um really appreciate
us for you well you lending us your
expertise and insight in those
negotiations thank you one final
significant update from this afternoon
the UK foreign secretary David Lamy
announced a partial suspension of arms
Sports to Israel this is after a review
Into the country's compliance with
international law when taking military
action in Gaza let's take a listen the
assessment I have received leaves me
unable to conclude anything other than
that for certain UK arms exports to
Israel there does exist a clear risk
that they might be used to commit or
facilitate a serious violation of
international humanitarian
law I have informed my right honorable
friend the business and trade secretary
and he is therefore today announcing the
suspension of around 30 from a total of
approximately
350 to Israel as required under the
export controls act let's speak to our
political correspondent Harry Farley in
Westminster Harry good to see you so we
should put this in some kind of context
I suppose the UK isn't a a great
exporter to Israel in this regard and it
isn't a complete ban or anything like
that but politically talk us through the
significance here yes that's right leis
you it's important to make those points
it's not an arms embargo it's not a a
complete ban on weapons exports you
heard David Lamy Lamy the foreign
secretary there saying you know it's
about 30 of 350 existing licenses but as
you
say uh politically this is a very
sensitive issue for the labor party the
governing party here in the UK because
they lost several seats they would have
otherwise been have been expected to win
in the general election earlier this
year to candidates independent
candidates largely standing on uh LA Pro
Gaza tickets particularly campaigning on
that issue now interestingly since David
Lamy was speaking just a few hours ago
the government has published a summary
of how it made that decision to suspend
some arms licenses and crucially it says
that it's not simply based on Israel's
conduct in Gaza it says despite the mass
mass casualties of the conflict in Gaza
it has not been possible to reach a
determinative judgment on the
allegations regarding Israel's conduct
of hostilities but rather this decision
is based on two par two other factors
humanitarian the assessment that the
government has done is that Israel has
not done enough has not done all that it
could to allow humanitarian Aid into
civilians in Gaza and also the
assessment or the summary of the
assessment that the government has
published says there have been credible
claims of mistreatment of detainees and
the volume and consistency of these
allegations suggest at least some
instances of mistreatment contrary to
international human humanitarian law so
the decision is been has been based on
that concern about treatment of
detainees and on the concern about the
not enough humanitarian Aid getting
through into Gaza not simply based on
Israel's uh conduct in Gaza Harry thank
you very much for talking us through
that